welcome back to natural language
processing the next slide set is going
to be about information extraction so
what is information extraction well it's
one of the most interesting problems in
natural language processing and it's
also one of the most practically useful
we usually start from some unstructured
or semi structured data and structured
refers to plain text and semi structured
in first to text that may have some
tables or some metadata so some examples
of unstructured dating to new stories
scientific papers or maybe resumes and
we are trying to extract entities events
and relations from those documents so
for example we want to figure out who
did what when and where and why and we
may be able to use this information to
build a knowledge base for example which
companies develop what kind of products
or which papers are about which
particular scientific topics so what is
the named entity well the different
types of those the most common
categories are people locations
organizations organizations can be
further divided into things like sports
teams newspapers let's say New York
Times the companies like IBM or
Microsoft we can also have geopolitical
entities like countries and continents
and so on named entities can be
ambiguous so for example the word London
can be a person like a last name city a
country it's a country by metonymy if
you remember from one of the earlier
lectures we can say something like
London decided not to get involved in
the war where London really stands for
the country that it is the capital of so
named entities are very useful or
because they can be used for interfaces
to databases question answering systems
and so on in addition to named entities
we want to be able to extract things
like times and events so times can be
absolute expressions like for example
January the seventh relative expressions
for example last night or next Thursday
we also want to be able to extract
events
and so on so a lot of the information
extraction tasks can be modeled as
sequence labeling problems so part of
speech tagging is another sequence
labeling problem named entity
recognition is one somatic or labeling
that we're going to talk about in the
future is also a sequence labeling
problem in sequence labeling the input
is a sequence of words for example W 1 W
2 W 3 and the output is a set of labeled
words for example W 2 is a noun that
corresponds to a person or maybe W 2 and
W 3 combined our sequence of two nouns
that correspond to a person and so on so
most of the time people use
classification methods for sequencing so
we can use the categories of the
previous tokens as features when we
classify the next one and the direction
matters sometimes it's better to do this
left to right and other cases it may be
better to do it right to left and you
can also do it by directionally going
both directions at the same time so one
of the most interesting points in
information extraction is named entity
recognition or NER as it is known in the
literature it consists of two parts
segmentation and classification so
segmentation is about determining which
words belong to specific named entity so
here in the sentence Brazilian football
legend the last condition has improved
according to a Thursday evening stable
Huma stop our Hospital we have three
named entities and they are segmented
property here
the second task identity recognition is
classification and that is once we have
segmented the text into named entities
and the rest of the sentence we want to
label each of the named entities with
its type so there are different ways to
do this we can use gazetteers such a
long lists of geographical locations or
people's names we can look at the
spelling of the individual words we can
look at the words that are adjacent or
the presence of specific words for
example the president or miss or mister
as per hints as to how to classify the
named entity so this particular sentence
here can be labeled in the following way
parlez is a person Thursday evening is a
time expression and finally South Paulo
is a look
so here's some more examples we can have
organizations Albert Einstein Hospital
is an organization Thursday night again
is a time expression and then we have an
event filet was relocated in this case
we have an action verb we locate which
has certain set of arguments in this
case Pillai has the person being
relocated information extraction and
entity recognition is very commonly used
in the biomedical domain so some
examples include gene labeling so here's
an example of a sentence burka one and
Berkut two or human genes that produce
tumor suppressor proteins in this case
we want to label the two instances of
genes murca one and worker two as genes
so this is the end of the section and
information extraction we're going to
continue with some additional topics
related to information extraction in the
next segment